Add guidance on V1 and V2 STS tokens (#36979)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/security/blazor-web-app-with-entra.md

We also recommend using a shared [Data Protection](xref:security/data-protection/introduction) key ring in production, even when the app uses the Interactive WebAssembly render mode exclusively for client-side rendering (no Blazor circuits).

## STS token version

There are two types of token formats, named Version 1 (V1) and Version 2 (V2). In Azure's security token services (STS), the V1 format uses the `sts.windows.net` domain as the issuer, while the V2 format uses the `login.microsoftonline.com` domain as issuer. V2 supports additional features, such as authenticating personal accounts and OpenID protocols.

> 

Author: Fixed

This article and its accompanying sample apps adopt V1 STS tokens. To adopt V2 tokens, make the following changes:

* The STS version must be changed in the apps' registrations in the Azure portal. Set the value of `requestedAccessTokenVersion` to `2` in the apps' manifests, both in the app's registration and the web API's (`MinimalApiJwt`) registration.
* Use the V2 authority URL format (example: `https://login.microsoftonline.com/{TENANT ID}/v2.0`, where the `{TENANT ID}` placeholder is the tenant ID).
* In the web API (`MinimalApiJwt`), explicitly validate the issuer:

  ```csharp
  jwtOptions.TokenValidationParameters = new TokenValidationParameters
  {
      ValidateIssuer = true,
      // Ensure the issuer ends with /v2.0 if using the V2 endpoint
      ValidIssuer = "https://login.microsoftonline.com/{TENANT ID}/v2.0",
      ValidateAudience = true,
      ValidAudience = "{WEB API CLIENT ID}",
      ValidateLifetime = true
  };
  ```

>   The `{WEB API CLIENT ID}` placeholder in the preceding example is only the client ID, not the full value passed to the `Audience` property.

Author: @halter73 ... ~I think you'll need to determine if this is an AI hallucination or not. 😄 ... and if not, I'll apply whatever suggestion(s) you make on the diff to fix it.~

>   The `{WEB API CLIENT ID}` placeholder in the preceding example is only the client ID, not the full value passed to the `Audience` property.

Author: Nevermind! I see what we need to do here. I'll fix it now.

We also recommend using a shared [Data Protection](xref:security/data-protection/introduction) key ring in production, even when the app uses the Interactive WebAssembly render mode exclusively for client-side rendering (no Blazor circuits).

## STS token version

There are two types of token URIs, named Version 1 (V1) and Version 2 (V2). In Azure's security token services (STS), the V1 endpoint uses the `sts.windows.net` domain as the issuer, while the V2 endpoint uses the `login.microsoftonline.com` domain as the issuer. V2 supports additional features, such as authenticating personal accounts and OpenID Connect (OIDC) protocols.

This article and its accompanying sample apps adopt V1 STS tokens. To adopt V2 tokens, make the following changes:

> * The STS version must be changed in the apps' registrations in the Azure portal. Set the value of `requestedAccessTokenVersion` to `2` in the apps' manifests, both in the app's registration and the web API's (`MinimalApiJwt`) registration.

Reviewer: `requestedAccessTokenVersion` in the app manifest controls the version of access tokens **issued for that app as a resource** (i.e., when it's the audience). For a Blazor Web App + `MinimalApiJwt` setup, the access token the BFF sends to the web API is issued for the web API's audience, so only the web API's app registration needs `requestedAccessTokenVersion: 2`. Setting it on the client app registration has no effect on the tokens consumed by `MinimalApiJwt`. Suggest narrowing this to just the web API registration as follows:

```suggestion
* The STS version must be changed in the web API's (`MinimalApiJwt`) app registration in the Azure portal. Set the value of `requestedAccessTokenVersion` to `2` in the web API app registration's manifest. Entra issues access tokens in the version requested by the resource (audience) app registration, so this setting on the Blazor Web App's client registration has no effect on the tokens that `MinimalApiJwt` receives and validates.
```

* Use the V2 authority URL endpoint (example: `https://login.microsoftonline.com/{TENANT ID}/v2.0`, where the `{TENANT ID}` placeholder is the tenant ID).
* In the web API (`MinimalApiJwt`), explicitly validate the issuer:

  ```csharp
  jwtOptions.TokenValidationParameters = new TokenValidationParameters
  {
      ValidateIssuer = true,

>       // Ensure the issuer ends with /v2.0 if using the V2 endpoint

Reviewer: Worth noting `{TENANT ID}` here must be the tenant **GUID** (matching the `tid` claim), not a domain like `contoso.onmicrosoft.com` — the `iss` claim for V2 work/school tokens is always the GUID form, so a domain-form `ValidIssuer` won't match. Suggest folding that into the existing comment:

```suggestion
      // Ensure the issuer ends with /v2.0 if using the V2 endpoint and that
      // {TENANT ID} is the tenant GUID (matching the token's tid claim), not a domain
```
